iac/claude-vm/README.md, before:

# Claude VM Infrastructure as Code

Automated provisioning and configuration of Claude development VMs on Proxmox VE.

## Prerequisites

### [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/snap/) (Terraform)

```sh
sudo snap install --classic opentofu
```

### [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/projects/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html)

#### [Pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) (Prerequisite)

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install pipx
pipx ensurepath
sudo pipx ensurepath --global
```

#### Ansible

```sh
pipx install --include-deps ansible
```

## Security

### API Token Configuration

**Never commit API tokens to version control.** Set the Proxmox API token via environment variable:

```sh
export TF_VAR_proxmox_api_token="user@realm!token-name=token-secret"
```

### TLS Certificate Verification

TLS verification is enabled by default. If using self-signed certificates, either:
1. Add your Proxmox CA to the system trust store, or
2. Set `insecure = true` in `provider.tf` (not recommended for production)

### SSH Host Key Verification

SSH is configured with `StrictHostKeyChecking=accept-new` which:
- Accepts host keys on first connection
- Detects and warns about changed host keys (potential MITM)

### Verified External Sources

All external resources are verified:

| Component | Source | Verification |
|-----------|--------|--------------|
| Docker | download.docker.com | GPG fingerprint: `9DC8 5822 9FC7 DD38 854A E2D8 8D81 803C 0EBF CD88` |
| GitHub CLI | cli.github.com | GPG fingerprint: `2C61 0620 1985 B60E 6C7A C873 23F3 D4EA 7571 6059` |
| tea CLI | dl.gitea.com | SHA256 checksum verification |
| NVM | github.com/nvm-sh/nvm | Official repository (GPG signed tags) |
| UV | astral.sh | Official source (GitHub attestations available) |
| Claude CLI | claude.ai | Official Anthropic source (signed binaries) |

### Pinned Versions

All dependencies are pinned to exact versions to prevent supply chain attacks:

- **Terraform Provider**: `bpg/proxmox = 0.93.0`
- **Ansible Collections**:
  - `devsec.hardening = 9.6.0`
  - `community.general = 10.2.0`
  - `ansible.posix = 2.0.0`

### Security Hardening Applied

The playbook applies security hardening via `devsec.hardening`:
- OS hardening (file permissions, kernel parameters)
- SSH hardening (key-only auth, modern ciphers)
- UFW firewall (deny incoming, allow SSH)
- fail2ban (SSH brute-force protection)
- Automatic security updates

### Claude Code Sandbox Mode

The VM is configured with Claude Code sandbox mode enabled by default. Sandbox mode provides OS-level filesystem and network isolation using `bubblewrap` on Linux.

**Sandbox Settings Applied:**
- `enabled: true` - Sandbox is active
- `autoAllowBashIfSandboxed: true` - Bash commands auto-approved within sandbox
- `allowUnsandboxedCommands: false` - Disables escape hatch for unsandboxed commands
- `excludedCommands: ["docker", "docker-compose"]` - Docker runs outside sandbox (incompatible)
- `enableWeakerNestedSandbox: false` - Maintains full sandbox strength

**Permission Deny Rules:**
- Blocks reading sensitive home directories: `~/.ssh/**`, `~/.aws/**`, `~/.gnupg/**`, `~/.config/gh/**`
- Blocks reading credential files: `.env`, `.env.*`, `~/.netrc`, `~/.gitconfig`
- Blocks reading project secrets: `./secrets/**`
- Blocks `curl` and `wget` bash commands to prevent data exfiltration

**Additional Settings:**
- `cleanupPeriodDays: 14` - Auto-cleanup of old sessions
- `respectGitignore: true` - Honors `.gitignore` in file picker
- `autoUpdatesChannel: "stable"` - Uses stable release channel
- `defaultMode: "acceptEdits"` - Auto-accepts file edits

For more information, see the [Claude Code Sandboxing Documentation](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/sandboxing).

## Usage

```sh
# Deploy a single VM
./deploy.py

# Deploy 3 VMs
./deploy.py -c 3

# Deploy with custom prefix and starting ID
./deploy.py -c 2 -p myvm -s 300    # Creates myvm-1 (ID 300), myvm-2 (ID 301)

# Only run Ansible on existing VMs (skip provisioning)
./deploy.py --skip-provision

# Only provision (skip Ansible configuration)
./deploy.py --skip-configure

# Skip hardening roles (faster iteration)
./deploy.py --skip-hardening

# Destroy all VMs
./deploy.py --destroy
```

### Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-c, --count NUM` | Number of VMs to create (default: 1) |
| `-p, --prefix NAME` | VM name prefix (default: claude-dev) |
| `-s, --start-id NUM` | Starting VM ID (default: 200) |
| `--skip-provision` | Skip OpenTofu provisioning (run Ansible only) |
| `--skip-configure` | Skip Ansible configuration (provision only) |
| `--skip-hardening` | Skip hardening roles (run setup only) |
| `--destroy` | Destroy all VMs |

### GitHub CLI Authentication

The VM can start with GitHub CLI pre-authenticated. Pass your token during configuration:

```sh
# Using environment variable (recommended)
export ANSIBLE_GH_TOKEN="ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx"
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -e "gh_token=$ANSIBLE_GH_TOKEN"

# Or directly (not recommended - visible in process list)
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -e "gh_token=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

**Token Requirements** (Fine-grained PAT recommended):
- `repo` - Full repository access
- `read:org` - Read organization membership

The VM will also have `GH_TOKEN` environment variable support - you can set it in `.bashrc` or pass it at runtime.

## Files

```
claude-vm/
├── deploy.py              # Main deployment script (Python)
├── provision/             # OpenTofu/Terraform configs
│   ├── main.tf
│   ├── variables.tf
│   ├── outputs.tf         # Ansible inventory output
│   ├── versions.tf        # Provider version pinning
│   ├── provider.tf        # Proxmox provider config
│   └── terraform.tfvars   # Variables (no secrets!)
└── configuration/         # Ansible configs
    ├── ansible.cfg
    ├── playbook.yml       # Main playbook
    ├── requirements.yml   # Collection dependencies
    ├── inventory/         # Generated inventory (hosts.json)
    └── group_vars/
        └── all.yml        # Variables
```

Commit message:

chore: clean up readme and claude.mds

iac/claude-vm/README.md, after:

# Claude VM Infrastructure as Code

Automated provisioning and configuration of Claude development VMs on Proxmox VE.

## Prerequisites

### [OpenTofu](https://opentofu.org/docs/intro/install/snap/) (Terraform)

```sh
sudo snap install --classic opentofu
```

### [Ansible](https://docs.ansible.com/projects/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html)

#### [Pipx](https://github.com/pypa/pipx) (Prerequisite)

```sh
sudo apt update
sudo apt install pipx
pipx ensurepath
sudo pipx ensurepath --global
```

#### Ansible

```sh
pipx install --include-deps ansible
```

## Security

### API Token Configuration

**Never commit API tokens to version control.** Set the Proxmox API token via environment variable:

```sh
export TF_VAR_proxmox_api_token="user@realm!token-name=token-secret"
```

### TLS Certificate Verification

TLS verification is enabled by default. If using self-signed certificates, either:
1. Add your Proxmox CA to the system trust store, or
2. Set `insecure = true` in `provider.tf` (not recommended for production)

### SSH Host Key Verification

SSH is configured with `StrictHostKeyChecking=accept-new` which:
- Accepts host keys on first connection
- Detects and warns about changed host keys (potential MITM)

### Verified External Sources

All external resources are verified:

| Component | Source | Verification |
|-----------|--------|--------------|
| Docker | download.docker.com | GPG fingerprint: `9DC8 5822 9FC7 DD38 854A E2D8 8D81 803C 0EBF CD88` |
| GitHub CLI | cli.github.com | GPG fingerprint: `2C61 0620 1985 B60E 6C7A C873 23F3 D4EA 7571 6059` |
| tea CLI | dl.gitea.com | SHA256 checksum verification |
| NVM | github.com/nvm-sh/nvm | Official repository (GPG signed tags) |
| UV | astral.sh | Official source (GitHub attestations available) |
| Claude CLI | claude.ai | Official Anthropic source (signed binaries) |

### Pinned Versions

All dependencies are pinned to exact versions to prevent supply chain attacks:

- **Terraform Provider**: `bpg/proxmox = 0.93.0`
- **Ansible Collections**:
  - `devsec.hardening = 9.6.0`
  - `community.general = 10.2.0`
  - `ansible.posix = 2.0.0`

### Security Hardening Applied

The playbook applies security hardening via `devsec.hardening`:
- OS hardening (file permissions, kernel parameters)
- SSH hardening (key-only auth, modern ciphers)
- UFW firewall (deny incoming, allow SSH)
- fail2ban (SSH brute-force protection)
- Automatic security updates

### Claude Code Sandbox Mode

The VM is configured with Claude Code sandbox mode enabled by default. Sandbox mode provides OS-level filesystem and network isolation using `bubblewrap` on Linux.

**Sandbox Settings Applied:**
- `enabled: true` - Sandbox is active
- `autoAllowBashIfSandboxed: true` - Bash commands auto-approved within sandbox
- `allowUnsandboxedCommands: false` - Disables escape hatch for unsandboxed commands
- `excludedCommands: ["docker", "docker-compose"]` - Docker runs outside sandbox (incompatible)
- `enableWeakerNestedSandbox: false` - Maintains full sandbox strength

**Permission Deny Rules:**
- Blocks reading sensitive home directories: `~/.ssh/**`, `~/.aws/**`, `~/.gnupg/**`, `~/.config/gh/**`
- Blocks reading credential files: `.env`, `.env.*`, `~/.netrc`, `~/.gitconfig`
- Blocks reading project secrets: `./secrets/**`
- Blocks `curl` and `wget` bash commands to prevent data exfiltration

**Additional Settings:**
- `cleanupPeriodDays: 14` - Auto-cleanup of old sessions
- `respectGitignore: true` - Honors `.gitignore` in file picker
- `autoUpdatesChannel: "stable"` - Uses stable release channel
- `defaultMode: "acceptEdits"` - Auto-accepts file edits

For more information, see the [Claude Code Sandboxing Documentation](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/sandboxing).

### MCP Servers

The VM is pre-configured with the following MCP (Model Context Protocol) servers available globally (user scope):

| Server | Command | Description |
|--------|---------|-------------|
| **Context7** | `npx -y @upstash/context7-mcp` | Provides up-to-date documentation for libraries and frameworks |
| **Playwright** | `npx -y @playwright/mcp@latest` | Browser automation for web testing and interaction |

**Verifying MCP Servers:**
```sh
claude mcp list
```

**Adding Additional MCP Servers:**
```sh
# Add globally (available in all projects)
claude mcp add <name> --scope user -- npx -y <package>

# Add for current project only
claude mcp add <name> -- npx -y <package>
```

For more information, see the [Claude Code MCP Documentation](https://code.claude.com/docs/en/mcp).

## Usage

```sh
# Deploy a single VM
./deploy.py

# Deploy 3 VMs
./deploy.py -c 3

# Deploy with custom prefix and starting ID
./deploy.py -c 2 -p myvm -s 300    # Creates myvm-1 (ID 300), myvm-2 (ID 301)

# Only run Ansible on existing VMs (skip provisioning)
./deploy.py --skip-provision

# Only provision (skip Ansible configuration)
./deploy.py --skip-configure

# Skip hardening roles (faster iteration)
./deploy.py --skip-hardening

# Destroy all VMs
./deploy.py --destroy
```

### Options

| Option | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `-c, --count NUM` | Number of VMs to create (default: 1) |
| `-p, --prefix NAME` | VM name prefix (default: claude-dev) |
| `-s, --start-id NUM` | Starting VM ID (default: 200) |
| `--skip-provision` | Skip OpenTofu provisioning (run Ansible only) |
| `--skip-configure` | Skip Ansible configuration (provision only) |
| `--skip-hardening` | Skip hardening roles (run setup only) |
| `--destroy` | Destroy all VMs |

### GitHub CLI Authentication

The VM can start with GitHub CLI pre-authenticated. Pass your token during configuration:

```sh
# Using environment variable (recommended)
export ANSIBLE_GH_TOKEN="ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx"
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -e "gh_token=$ANSIBLE_GH_TOKEN"

# Or directly (not recommended - visible in process list)
ansible-playbook playbook.yml -e "gh_token=ghp_xxxxxxxxxxxx"
```

**Token Requirements** (Fine-grained PAT recommended):
- `repo` - Full repository access
- `read:org` - Read organization membership

The VM will also have `GH_TOKEN` environment variable support - you can set it in `.bashrc` or pass it at runtime.

## Files

```
claude-vm/
├── deploy.py              # Main deployment script (Python)
├── provision/             # OpenTofu/Terraform configs
│   ├── main.tf
│   ├── variables.tf
│   ├── outputs.tf         # Ansible inventory output
│   ├── versions.tf        # Provider version pinning
│   ├── provider.tf        # Proxmox provider config
│   └── terraform.tfvars   # Variables (no secrets!)
└── configuration/         # Ansible configs
    ├── ansible.cfg
    ├── playbook.yml       # Main playbook
    ├── requirements.yml   # Collection dependencies
    ├── inventory/         # Generated inventory (hosts.json)
    └── group_vars/
        └── all.yml        # Variables
```
